PONDERER'S TABLE REFERENCE
Prepared 9 October 2026

QUALITY REVIEW
The package has been checked again for rules, page references, print layout,
tracker dimensions and agreement between the PDF and editable sources.
QUALITY-REVIEW.txt lists the corrections and the exact pages to reprint.

PRINTING
Print Ponderer-Table-Reference.pdf single-sided on US Letter at 100% / Actual
Size. Do not use Fit to Page for the token sheet. The left margin is 1.14 inches
for a three-hole punch. Bullet tokens and their tracker spaces are 3/4 inch wide.

The player reference has 47 pages. The first five pages are the contents,
turn reference, Delay/Ready, example turns, and a decision guide. This is a
reference to use as situations arise, not a reading assignment.

DIVIDERS
Orange: O1–O5 — My turn
Pink:   P1–P5 — Help the party
Blue:   B1–B7 — Fight and move
Green:  G1–G6 — Explore
Yellow: Y1–Y4 — Talk and prepare
Cyan:   C1–C11 — Equipment and tracking
Purple: V1–V9 — Rules, abilities and index

Place O1 in front of the dividers if preferred. Page IDs stay fixed when you
insert new pages. The PDF also has bookmarks and clickable page references.

TRACKERS
Ponderer-Table-Mats.pdf contains eight pages that can stay open beside the binder:
C3 pistol, C10 carbine, C8 turn, C9 effects, C4 air, Y1 assets, C6 cutouts,
and C11 carbine charge tokens / battery log. Ponderer-FED-12-Tracker.pdf
contains only C10 and C11 for printing these additions separately.
All token circles are 3/4 inch across. Print the mats and cutouts at the same
100% scale. Use pencil or sheet protectors with erasable pen for written fields.

Set up and reset:
- ACTION x3: C8 AVAILABLE; move to USED per action spent; reset on your turn.
- REACTION: C8 READY; move to USED when spent; reset on your turn.
- DIRECTIVE: C8 AVAILABLE; move to ISSUED when used; reset on the GM round cue.
- NEXT ATTACK: C8 FIRST; advance after every attack, including misses and Escape.
  Stay at THIRD+ afterward; reset on your turn. Switching weapons keeps the count.
- BULLET x10: C3 LOADED for actual loaded rounds, remaining tokens in SPENT.
  Shots move to SPENT. Reload returns tokens to LOADED and reduces written reserve.
  Ammunition persists between turns and sessions.
- +1 ATTACK / DAMAGE / +1 AC: start PARKED on C9. Move to the named ability
  when gained. Return at the start of your next turn and clear its target field.
- BON MOT: start PARKED. Record each affected person, penalty and expiry; keep
  the token in its box while any listed effect remains. P3 gives early endings.
- SIZED UP 1/2/3: start PARKED on C9. Move to Y1 above the matching asset name.
  Assets persist; the limit equals CHA modifier. At the limit, a new asset
  replaces an existing one. Y1 has extra lines for assets without tokens.
- FED-12 CHARGE x10: C10 CHARGED for actual installed battery charges; all
  remaining tokens go in SPENT. Fill vertical pairs first. Each shot moves
  two tokens to SPENT. On reload, record the old battery on C11, install a
  replacement and set tokens to its charge. Preserve partially used batteries.
- AIR: circle tens and ones on C4; record use/loss in whole minutes.
  Campaign conversion: 1 light Bulk = 1 minute; 1 Bulk = 10 minutes.
  Record refill capacity from the gear stored in the chamber (C5).

Use the trackers Jonah finds helpful. You do not need every mat open at once.

GM SETUP
Read Ponderer-GM-Setup.pdf before filling the tracker blanks. It records the
sheet corrections, inventory assumptions, source priority, and unresolved
starting quantities. Ponder Unity's additional save is confirmed: the target
rolls Will against Ponderer's Class DC; failure reveals a secret, and attempting
the deeper read makes it permanently immune. Your Thought-trait ruling is also
applied: Ponder Unity qualifies as telepathy, permitting repeated/readied lash
Strikes and lethal damage without the nonlethal penalty. The vault was not modified.

CURRENT NUMBERS AND FUTURE UPDATES
Keep AC, HP, saves, DCs, skills, Speeds, weapon modifiers/damage, armor worn
and the inventory on the character sheet. The binder supplies the procedure.
V7 explains calculations without repeating current character totals.
C5 explains Bulk without keeping a second item list. M-Series / Estex has
Strength threshold +1; C1 explains when its skill penalty applies.
On level-up, update the sheet. Add pages for new abilities or gear procedures
using new IDs; existing IDs and trackers stay usable. P1 and C9 use a DAMAGE
token with P1's level table, so the token does not need a new printed number.

Carbine charge and spare-battery counts need confirmation before play.

Five pistol bullets were used in Session 2. A current load of five is conditional
on starting with a full ten-round magazine and not reloading. Reserve ammunition
and current air remain blank until confirmed. No purchases were made.

EDITING
Open Ponderer-Editable.html in a browser. Its Edit text button lets you change
the text; Finish editing closes edit mode. Save edited HTML downloads those
changes and closes edit mode. Player and GM copies use different download names.
That changes the HTML only,
not the PDFs or the JSON. Browser printing may paginate differently from the PDF.
Fonts and diagrams are embedded, so the HTML does not need an internet connection.

To rebuild the checked PDF layout:
  1. Install Python 3, ReportLab and PyMuPDF.
     python -m pip install reportlab pymupdf
  2. Edit binder-content.json. Keep existing page IDs.
  3. Run: python build_binder.py
  4. Inspect layout-check.json and visually check changed PDF pages before printing.

The fonts and their licenses are included. The action-symbols folder contains
the individual SVGs. One-action and reaction artwork follows Tarn's cards;
free-action artwork follows Gib's cards. Two/three-action icons use the same
chevron geometry.

RULES AND SCOPE
The supplied Starfinder 2e Player Core, current official rules references,
Ponderer's sheet, the Session 2 transcript, and the current Erbium vault were
used. Bon Mot is the Pathfinder feat expressly granted by the GM. Homebrew
ancestry, Ponder Unity, FED equipment and atmosphere rulings take priority over
older cards and published ancestry versions. See the GM PDF for source links.

The binder covers Ponderer's selected abilities and commonly useful actions.
It is not the complete Player Core. When an unusual situation arises, ask the
GM to resolve it and add a page if it becomes a recurring need.
